The House of Knowledge is both a library and the primary temple to [[Oghma]] in the city of Neverwinter. Architecturally, it is regarded as one of the most impressive and beautiful structures in the city – featuring abundant windows and an impressive arched roof. Its vast libraries contain many centuries worth of precious records and materials, including modern government documentation as the city lacks a formal seat of government at present.

Like so much of Neverwinter, the House of Knowledge suffered near total destruction with the eruption of [[Mount Hotenow]] in 1451 DR. A dedicated young Loremaster, [[Atlavast]], saved much of the library’s precious contents by sealing away the temple’s inner sanctum and trapping himself inside. Alone and in solitude, [[Atlavast]] managed to survive the cataclysm and save multitudes of rare tomes, documents, and artifacts. However, he soon grew reclusive and a little mad from the isolation. He spent his time repeatedly cataloguing and reorganizing the library. He grew extremely protective of the content. During this time, the outer sections of the House of Knowledge were taken over by various squatters, including the devil-worshipping [[Ashmadai cultists]]

Since the chasm’s sealing, the faithful of [[Oghma]] have returned to the temple and work to restore it as a center of knowledge and learning. The stern Grand Scribe [[Spivey Liethennson]] now oversees the House’s reconstruction with an iron fist and short temper. The House of Knowledge’s exterior has already been largely restored, though much restoration work remains underway on the interior. Still, the house has once again become a functional location for those seeking local lore and records.

>**Inconvenient Information**. Players seeking specific lore about Neverwinter or the surrounding area would be wise to consider the vast wealth of information stored at the House of Knowledge. However, to access some pieces of knowledge, the party might have to contend with the short fuse of Grand Scribe [[Spivey Liethennson|Liethennson]] or the cracked, over-protective demeanour of Loremaster [[Atlavast]]. Either may make the party prove themselves in some way before they would be trusted with the library’s contents.