* An imposing fixture of Neverwinter's western end, Castle Never stands as a monument to the city's former glory. The cataclysm struck it hard, toppling towers, collapsing walls, and starting fires that burned throughout the structure.
* Three bridges radiate out over the [[Neverwinter River]]: the [[Sleeping Dragon Bridge]], the [[Winged Wyvern Bridge]], and the [[Dolphin Bridge]].*
* Straddles the boundaries between The Protectors Enclave, The Neverwinter Docks, and the Blacklake districts.
* The interior and exterior structure are both currently in disrepair, making the structure too dangerous for any inhabitation.

* The entire royal family is thought to have perished, and the remaining servants sea led the vaults, crypts, and grounds with the hope that a worthy heir to Neverwinter would arrive one day to take his or her rightful place on the throne. On that day, it is said, the magic treasures and other resources of the castle will serve the new ruler.
* In the interim, Castle Never has become a war zone. Several factions vie for dominance over the empty castle and its throne. In particular, [[Valindra Shadowmantle]] of [[Thay]] seeks to plunder one resource the castle offers: the corpses of rulers past and the legendary Neverwinter Nine, bodyguards to the kings of the city.
* To the uninformed eye, Castle Never looks like a big, hulking ruin. Half its towers fell in the cataclysm, and the wall on its seaward side crumbled to rubble. Chunks of stone and fallen statues litter the windswept courtyard. Inside, the stone corridors stink of ash and dust, which swirls up around the feet of intruders. Even in their emptiness, the corridors never seem vacant. The spirits of the hundreds who died here linger on.
* The castle was built on a strong foundation, however, and if the structure were purged of monsters, it could be refurbished. Many of the interior rooms collapsed, but others stand eerily intact. The least damaged parts of the cast le are also the best fortified: the firmly locked armoury, the great hall, and the Neverneath dungeon.