The Dead Rats gang makes its home in the sewers beneath the Blacklake District. Explorers who venture close start seeing ga ng signs gouged into the stone walls (the better for feeling one's way in the dark). Within their territory, the Rats have cluttered the sewers with a vast assortment of stolen goods, half-rotted food , and trash. Like their namesakes, they are pack rats and pests.

The Rats lay claim to a network of sewer tunnels that allows them free passage throughout the city and offers multileveled defenses against intruders. Gang members dissuade trespassers with traps, portcullises, tripwires near beds of spikes, and so on. Secure in their holes, the Rats steal, sabotage, and generally make life in Neverwinter a trial.

The wererat [[Rsolk]], king of the gang, holds court in a honeycomb of caverns near the shore of Blacklake that is packed with objects and garbage recovered from all over the city. Through the exploitation of kidnapped engineers, [[Rsolk]] has installed a flood trap mechanism that can bring the waters of the lake rushing in to cleanse the sewers at the pull of a switch.

>A Dead Rat deserter can scheme to gain a place in the gang, using the other members for his or her own ends (and doing service for them in return) and perhaps coming to dominate the group. Taking leadership of the gang involves a brutal battle against [[Rsolk]]. The wererat is willing to engage in a one-on-one duel against a challenger, but his allies jump in to aid him when he is bloodied, provoking an all-out fight. A sore loser, [[Rsolk]] is likely to activate the flood trap if he is defeated.