Beneath the more stable levels of the crypts, the caverns appear to be made of virgin stone that is anything but natural. The seething influence of the Spellplague in nearby [[Neverwinter]] and the song of the [[plaguechanged]] [[Symphony of Madness|choir]] have warped the environment of these caverns and created a strange sort of swampy forest. Luminous rocks protrude at unnatural angles from the stone, twisted trees grow where none should thrive, and brackish water the colour of blood runs up the walls.

Explorers who delve this deeply sometimes see an unexpected sight: a green elf who roams the forested cavern. The elf keeps his distance, though he stares at newcomers with a piercing intensity. If visitors approach the elf, he takes his leave, only to return later and hunt them in his true form: the corrupted green dragon [[Chartilifax]].

The caverns are a perfect hunting ground for the dragon— a big, swampy maze that swells with fungal bloom and sheds natural dim light. [[Chartilifax]] enjoys stalking his prey as it tries to escape the fetid hole or find the [[Hex Locus]], the treasure that the dragon protects. [[Chartilifax]] is fiercely territorial, but [[Rohini]] has trained him not to harm aberrant creatures, including native beasts that have been corrupted by the choir resonating through the area. [[Plaguechanged]] chokers dwell in the alcoves off [[Chartilifax]]'s cavern, putrid plant monsters live in the twisted forest, and the swamps are filled with aberrant versions of normal fish and amphibians.